{\rtf1\ansi\deff0{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial;}}
\margl1440\margr1440\margt1440\margb1440
\fs24\f0

\s1\f1\fs40\b DISASTER RESPONSE & RESCUE NAVIGATION SYSTEM\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * A Graph-Based Emergency Route Planning System Using DSA\par
* Submitted by Bhavyaswi (Roll No: 17) & Teammate (Teja)\par
* Department of Computer Science and Engineering, LPU\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b PROJECT OVERVIEW & MOTIVATION\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Disaster management plays a critical role in saving human lives during natural calamities.\par
* Response time during the "Golden Hours" (first 72 hours) determines victim survival rates.\par
* Standard GPS navigators only optimize for distance or traffic congestion, ignoring safety hazards.\par
* Need for a dedicated emergency response routing platform to coordinate rescue efforts.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b PROBLEM STATEMENT\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Disrupted transport links (floods, landslides, earthquakes) render highways impassable.\par
* Rescue teams lack visibility on safe alternative routes and road blockages.\par
* Poor coordination of resources like hospital beds, shelters, and emergency responders.\par
* C++ execution files face serverless hosting restrictions on platforms like Vercel.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE & DUAL-ENGINE CORE\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Web Dashboard: Developed using HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, and Leaflet.js map visualization.\par
* Local C++ Core: High-performance routing engine in C++ for sub-millisecond execution times.\par
* Cloud JS Fallback: Native JavaScript router (dsaEngine.js) for serverless deployment on Vercel.\par
* Data Storage: Predefined CSV databases representing cities, roads, hospitals, and shelters.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b GRAPH REPRESENTATION OF ROAD NETWORK\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Graph G = (V, E) modeling 41 major Indian cities (Vertices) and 69 highway links (Edges).\par
* Adjacency List: Memory-efficient storage layout, ideal for sparse transportation graphs.\par
* Edge Weights: Represents highway distances under normal conditions.\par
* Dynamic Hazard Penalization: Road danger levels scale dynamically during simulated disasters.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b DYNAMIC PATHFINDING (DIJKSTRA'S ALGORITHM)\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Calculates optimal safety-aware paths from single source to destination.\par
* Min-Priority Queue (Binary Min-Heap) used to select the lowest cost node in O(log V) time.\par
* Safety Weighted formula: Edge Cost = Distance * (1.0 + (Danger Level - 1) * 0.3).\par
* Automatically recalculates routes around blocked highways and high-risk zones.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b FOCUSSED ROUTING (A* HEURISTIC SEARCH)\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Evaluation function: f(n) = g(n) + h(n), balancing actual cost and estimated distance.\par
* Heuristic h(n) calculated using the Haversine formula (great-circle distance on a sphere).\par
* Coordinates parsed from CSV database: Latitudes and Longitudes of all 41 cities.\par
* Reduces search space by up to 56% compared to Dijkstra's algorithm.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b GRAPH TRAVERSALS (BFS & DFS)\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Breadth-First Search (BFS): Level-by-level traversal using Queue to analyze network hops.\par
* Depth-First Search (DFS): Backtracking depth traversal using Stack to verify topological paths.\par
* Helps dispatchers explore nearby locations and check connectivity.\par
* Sorts adjacent nodes alphabetically to ensure deterministic results.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b PERFORMANCE BENCHMARKS (RESULTS)\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Dijkstra (Safe path): 2203.4 km distance | 32 nodes expanded | 0.14 ms execution time.\par
* A* Search (Haversine): 2203.4 km distance | 14 nodes expanded | 0.08 ms execution time.\par
* BFS (Shortest hops): 2412.0 km distance | 38 nodes expanded | 0.18 ms execution time.\par
* DFS (Depth first): 4102.8 km distance | 41 nodes expanded | 0.24 ms execution time.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b HOSPITAL & EMERGENCY SHELTER ASSIGNMENT\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Automatically displays critical resource statuses along the calculated route.\par
* Hospitals: Shows contact details and available emergency bed counts.\par
* Shelters: Shows maximum capacities and current occupancy levels.\par
* Rescue Teams: Pinpoints nearby disaster relief teams for immediate dispatch.\par
\page

\s1\f1\fs40\b FUTURE SCOPE & CONCLUSION\b0\fs24\f0\par
\s2\f0\fs24 * Integrates DSA graph structures to solve real-world emergency navigation problems.\par
* Future Work: Real-time sensor API integration and weather forecasting.\par
* Offline Navigation: Mesh networks for communications during local network failures.\par
* AI Prediction: ML models for predicting road blockage risks based on rainfall forecasts.\par
}
